1. main.py
Purpose: Acts as the entry point for the application and ties everything together. Key Functions:

Initializes the FastAPI app.

Sets up the lifespan event handler for startup/shutdown operations.

Mounts static and data directories for serving files.

Registers routers from api/stock.py and api/submit.py.

Implements the root ("/") endpoint that renders the homepage (index.html).

Workflow:

@asynccontextmanager lifespan(app: FastAPI):

Performs initialization tasks, such as setting up the database (via app.core.db.init_db()).

Routers (stock.router, submit.router) define specific endpoints for the application.

Directories for static files (/static) and data files (/data) are mounted for serving assets and results.

2. app/api/stock.py
Purpose: Contains endpoints for interacting with stock data. Key Functions:

Fetches and filters stock data.

Provides data visualizations or analytics related to stock trends.

Typical Code Flow:

User calls an endpoint for stock data.

Endpoint fetches stock data from a source (e.g., external API or database).

Applies filters or transformations based on user input.

Returns the processed data in JSON format or as visualizations.

Example: Endpoints like /get-stock-data or /filter-data might exist here to serve user requests.

3. app/api/submit.py
Purpose: Handles form submissions and manages bulk tasks. Key Functions:

Validates user inputs from the homepage (index.html).

Fetches raw stock data based on inputs like ticker symbol and date ranges.

Invokes ML models for predictions (via models/ml_models.py).

Saves processed data and generates output files (e.g., CSV and PNG).

Typical Code Flow:

User submits the form with ticker symbols, models, and time periods.

Form data is validated.

Fetches and preprocesses raw data (utils/data_utils.py).

Applies predictions using selected models (models/ml_models.py or models/linear_model.py).

Generates plots and saves files (utils/plot_utils.py).

4. app/core/config.py
Purpose: Stores configuration settings used across the application. Key Components:

Initializes the templates object for rendering HTML files.

Centralized constants or paths used throughout the app.

5. app/core/db.py
Purpose: Manages database initialization and connections. Key Functions:

init_db() initializes the database schema.

May include functions for connecting to and managing SQLite, PostgreSQL, or other databases.

Typical Code Flow:

Creates tables required for the app (e.g., storing stock data or predictions).

Ensures the database connection is active during app runtime.

Provides helper functions for querying or updating records.

6. app/models/linear_model.py
Purpose: Implements a linear regression model for stock predictions. Key Components:

Includes methods for fitting the model to stock data.

Generates predictions based on historical trends.

Workflow:

Accepts stock data as input.

Fits a linear regression model to predict future closing prices.

Returns predicted values along with metrics (e.g., MAE, MSE).

7. app/models/arima_model.py 
Purpose: Implements a statistical approach for time series forecasting using the ARIMA model. Key Functions:

Fits an ARIMA Model: Uses statsmodels to analyze and predict time series data based on historical trends, leveraging three key parameters—autoregression (p), differencing (d), and moving average (q).

Generates Forecasts: Provides future predictions (forecast_steps) based on the trained ARIMA model.

Computes Metrics: Evaluates prediction accuracy with metrics like Mean Absolute Error (MAE) and Mean Squared Error (MSE).

Workflow:

Extracts closing price data from historical stock data.

Fits an ARIMA model to the processed data, capturing trends and seasonality.

Generates future forecasts using the ARIMA model.

Computes evaluation metrics (MAE, MSE) to assess prediction accuracy.

Returns predictions and metrics in a structured format for further processing (e.g., saving to the database, generating visualizations).

8. app/models/lstm_model.py 
Purpose: Implements a deep learning approach for time series forecasting using an LSTM (Long Short-Term Memory) model. Key Functions:

Defines LSTM Neural Network: Builds a neural network using PyTorch, consisting of LSTM layers (to capture sequential dependencies) and fully connected layers (to map outputs to predictions).

Preprocesses Input Data: Normalizes stock data using MinMaxScaler to scale values between 0 and 1, improving model performance.

Trains the Model: Utilizes past observations (defined by sequence_length) to fit the LSTM network, minimizing error with the Mean Squared Error (MSE) loss function.

Predicts Future Values: Iteratively generates future forecasts (forecast_steps), using the model’s predictions to extend input sequences.

Computes Metrics: Evaluates accuracy with metrics like MAE and MSE for comparison and reporting.

Workflow:

Extracts and normalizes stock price data to prepare input sequences.

Creates sliding windows of training data using a predefined sequence_length.

Trains the LSTM model to predict closing prices based on historical data.

Iteratively generates future forecasts, updating input sequences with predicted values.

Computes evaluation metrics (MAE, MSE) and returns results in a structured format (e.g., for visualization or storage).

9. app/models/ml_models.py
Purpose: Aggregates various machine learning models for stock analysis and predictions. Key Components:

Acts as a centralized module to manage multiple models (e.g., linear regression, time-series forecasting).

Allows runtime selection of the desired model based on user input.

10. app/models/db.models.py
Purpose: Defines database schemas using ORM (Object-Relational Mapping). Typical Components:

Models represent database tables (e.g., StockData, Predictions).

Includes relationships and constraints, ensuring seamless integration with FastAPI.

11. app/utils/data_utils.py
Purpose: Manages data retrieval and preprocessing. Key Functions:

Fetches stock data from external APIs or databases.

Prepares raw data for saving or analysis (e.g., filtering unnecessary columns).

Saves processed data as CSV files.

12. app/utils/plot_utils.py
Purpose: Handles the creation of visualizations (e.g., line charts for stock prices). Key Functions:

Generates plots using libraries like Matplotlib or Seaborn.

Saves plots as PNG files for users to download or view.

13. app/utils/prediction_utils.py
Purpose: Manages the prediction logic. Key Components:

Applies selected models to normalized stock data.

Formats prediction results for use in templates (results.html) or CSV files.

14. app/utils/normalization.py
Purpose: Normalizes stock data for consistent analysis and model performance. Key Components:

Contains functions to scale data (e.g., MinMaxScaler or Z-score normalization).

Ensures data consistency across different models.

15. app/templates/index.html
Purpose: Acts as the user interface for submitting stock data requests. Key Components:

Includes forms for entering ticker symbols and selecting models.

Links to the /submit endpoint to process user inputs.

16. app/templates/results.html
Purpose: Displays processed stock data, predictions, and plots. Key Components:

Includes links to CSV and PNG files.

Renders prediction metrics (e.g., MAE, MSE).

17. static/styles.css
Purpose: Provides styling for HTML templates. Key Components:

CSS classes for layout, fonts, colors, and responsiveness.

Improves the visual appeal of index.html and results.html.

18. /data/
Purpose: Stores dynamically generated files. Contents:

Plots (.png): Visualizations of stock prices.

Data Files (.csv): Processed stock data for further analysis.

How It Works Together
The modular structure separates concerns cleanly:

Frontend (HTML Templates + CSS):

Users interact with the application through index.html and view results in results.html.

Backend (API + Utils + Models):

Handles user submissions, fetches stock data, applies predictions, and generates outputs.

Database:

Saves important records (e.g., user submissions, prediction results) for future use.

Data Storage:

Outputs (CSV, plots) are saved in /data/ for users to access.